Title: GentooLTO: One year later 
Author: Shane Peelar <lookatyouhacker@gmail.com>
Content-Type: text/plain
Posted: 2018-10-27
Revision: 1
News-Item-Format: 1.0

When GentooLTO launched, it was little more than a few config files that were
versioned under git.  With your help, we've managed to turn it into a 
near-drop in enhancement to Portage that enables system-wide LTO, supporting
many compiler optimizations that have been left out due to the -O2 default
seen everywhere.  I'm unsure exactly how many of you are out there, but know
that every email, issue, and pull request received has helped make this
project what it is.  The project has grown significantly, with contributors suggesting
even more interesting optimization opportunities, such as system-wide AutoFDO.

Before we start taking things to the next level, however, I'd like to take a
minute to ask anyone who uses this overlay to please send your installed
package set and emerge --info to me via email.  The reason I'm asking is that
I'd like to publish a report on how much coverage we have in Portage.  I suspect
that by now it is quite high.  I will be using all publicly accessible overlays
that are registered on https://overlays.gentoo.org/ to check against, so
don't worry about restricting it to /usr/portage.  In a month or two,
I'll combine these results to make a nice report that I'll include in
README.md.

An easy way to collect this info is with the following commands:

~~~
eix-installed -a > lto-worldsetdeep
emerge --info > lto-einfo
tar zcvf lto-stats.tar.gz lto-worldsetdeep lto-einfo
~~~

Then just email `lto-stats.tar.gz` to lookatyouhacker@gmail.com with subject
"GentooLTO statistics".  If you'd like to remain anonymous, just say so in the
email somewhere and I'll make sure that your submission is anonymized.
Otherwise, I'll make sure that you are credited in the report.

It's been a pleasure, and I'm looking forward to what the next year may bring
for the project.  Thanks for all your contributions!

-Shane
