Title: GentooLTO portageq changes
Author: Shane Peelar <lookatyouhacker@gmail.com>
Content-Type: text/plain
Posted: 2023-10-28
Revision: 1
News-Item-Format: 1.0

Greetings GentooLTO community,

As a result of the portageq removal from ebuilds, I've had to change the configuration of GentooLTO a bit.
In make.conf, if you are using the override-flagomatic option, you must now specify the path to lto-overlay
in the variable LTO_OVERLAY_PATH.  If you're not using this GentooLTO flag, this probably wouldn't affect you.
Both ltoize and 41-lto-patch.sh have been updated for the change and will issue an error if the flag isn't set.
Hopefully this migration isn't too inconvenient for you.

On another note, as you probably already know, I don't maintain GentooLTO very often anymore.
There's a number of reasons for this, but the biggest is probably that the project has kind of accomplished
its goals, more or less.  There just aren't very many workarounds required anymore for getting a working LTO system.
Larger Linux distributions even support building with LTO now, which is fantastic!  I don't know if it's our
community that normalized LTO necessarily, but I like to imagine that we've had some impact here at least.

If you're looking for a more stable alternative to GentooLTO for your system, I encourage you to use the upstream
support provided by the Gentoo community.  Upstream now supports LTO and will accept bugs with packages that
don't build with LTO cleanly.  So, if you're running a vanilla LTO system now without the other flags supported
in this repo, you might consider just using the upstream Gentoo support, as they have your back.

If you're using the other flags in GentooLTO that aren't supported upstream, rest assured, this repository
isn't going away.  However, my time is pretty limited now and I can't verify workarounds like I once could.
So, if it's not a straightforward verification, it might take a while for me (read: months?) to get around to confirming
the need for your workaround.

As for future GentooLTO plans, consider the project on maintenance mode now with no major work planned other
than keeping the lights on.  For anything seriously urgent (like the portageq stuff) I'll definitely intervene.
Otherwise, you can continue enjoying your LTO system.  BTW, Even if you use LTO without sys-config/ltoize, you might
consider using lto-rebuild here to help you deal with static archives.  Not sure if that's an upstream thing yet.

One last thing.  I've received some calls for adding another maintainer to the project.  I have considered this
but consider it far too risky to do.  GentooLTO installs itself directly into your package manager and basically
has root access, and I simply can't pay enough attention to maintainer activity to ensure no funny business is going
on.  So, while I appreciate the genuine offers for help from various members of the community,
I can't accept any requests for maintainer access to the project.  If you truly want to do this,
I recommend forking the project and direct users to your fork.  Who knows, I may even use it myself :)

Anyway, sad as it is to say, it's been a slice, GentooLTO'ers.
Thank you so much for your dedication and support over the years.
As a community I like to think we've accomplished a lot together, even if it is a rather niche topic.
Keep on doing great things and being awesome people.

-Shane

